Hey YouTube. Hey Brian. Hey Daniel. Hey. How's it going? Yeah, it's great. Going great. Nice
to have you here, Daniel. Brian, thank you. See you as always. You guys ready to kick
off this episode? Definitely. Right on. Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver
Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 284 recorded May
17th, 2022. I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I am Brian Ruckin.
And I'm Daniel Mulkey.
Daniel, great to have you here.
Thank you. It's an honor.
Yeah, it's an honor to have you. Now, before we get into our first topic that Brian's going
to tell us about, just give us a bit of your background.
Sure. I am a optical engineer in Southern California, but I have a significant amount
of my time spent using Python for data analysis, instrument control, and other things. So I've
been doing it for a better part of the last five years.
And I've had a back and forth relationship with MATLAB
and I'm finally married to Python, so to speak.
- Fantastic, you've finally been able to get out
of your dysfunctional relationship with MATLAB.
- Yes, exactly.
- It sounds a little bit like you might live
in a parallel universe to Brian.
- Yeah, it sounds like it.
We should definitely get you on testing code
and we can BS about that.
- Sure, yeah, I'd love to.
- Yeah, so cool.
Well, Brian, I would love to hear about our first topic.
You want to talk about it?
It sounds very distinct, you know?
- Distinctify, yes, very distinct.
So I ran across this.
I can't remember how I ran across it.
Guess it doesn't matter.
But one of the things I like,
it's a Python package called Distinctify.
And it's very simple.
It's a lightweight Python package
to provide functions to generate colors
that are visually distinct from one another.
So I was thinking like, you know, you got a,
you got a chart,
like maybe you're taking user data or something
and you don't know how many lines you're going to plot,
but you're going to plot a whole bunch of lines.
How do you pick the colors for what the lines are?
So this was,
this is a kind of a neat thing to just pick visually
distinct colors.
Pretty, pretty focused, but it's pretty cool.
And all you do is you kind of just give it,
you give it like the number of colors you want
and it gives you back the colors.
And you can, it has display capabilities.
So you have to install extra stuff to make that happen
but you can display color swatches too with it.
And I was looking at some of the different colors
that are available.
Like one of the ones was 15 different colors.
I think it's 15 colors for normal vision
versus some color blindness.
So if you have color blind people
you can pick based on some of that stuff.
There's a whole bunch of examples in the repo too
that it's kind of fun to look at.
One of them was the, like the normal color blind one.
Oh, was that it?
No, that wasn't it.
But there's some really cool examples of different colors.
So if you just give it a few,
it just grabs a few of course,
but there's a whole bunch of neat ones,
clusters and things.
So anyway, cool little library.
- Yeah, I like that they have,
I noticed when I was looking through it,
they have a function for generating a color palette.
And so you can generate a color blind friendly palette.
So hypothetically that works well for visual color blind.
And if it's in print and you're doing black and white.
So that was the most interesting thing to me.
I know-
- Oh, it even has black and white.
- Well, at least I think if you take a color blind palette
and you make it black and white,
typically it's still a decent contrast.
So if you have to worry about printing things out.
- Oh, that's cool.
- That's great.
And one of its functions is to take the color map
that it generates and turn that into a matplotlib.
>> Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. >> Cool.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Oh, that's what I was looking for.
>> Yeah. Oh, wow.
>> And there's somebody in the audience
who just found out they're colorblind.
>> Go ahead, Dan.
>> And there's somebody in the audience
who just found out they're colorblind.
>> Right. Is there a difference? What is this?
>> So, yeah, one of my kids found out,
like, in high school that they were colorblind.
So interesting.
>> Yeah, how would you know?
For a long time, you're just like,
people tell me that's a color.
I guess I'm not great at picking out that color.
>> She gets, an art teacher said,
I really love how you use both blues and greens in the sky.
And she was like, I intended to just use blue, but thanks.
>> I have a friend who went to art school
and that was essentially his story
that he always had really vivid color choices
'cause he didn't see the same as everybody else.
It was great, it was awesome.
- That's really cool stuff. - That's pretty cool.
- Yeah.
Cool, all right.
Brian, we ready for the next one?
- Definitely.
- Okay.
So let's talk about SQL Soda, or Soda SQL.
So this is a open source CLI tool
that if you're doing like ETL,
like ingest transform loads type of stuff,
doing other sort of analysis or exploration of SQL data,
it allows you to connect to your data source,
like your database, and then define tests
for what invalid data looks like, right?
Does this have to be a number?
Can it, does it just have to be not null?
You know, what is it?
So for an example here, they're talking about,
here's the YAML file for a warehouse,
a data warehouse reporting type thing for Postgres.
So you just set up like your connection and your host
and all that kind of stuff, and then off it goes.
So pretty neat.
And then you can scan your dataset
to run tests against your data.
Isn't that cool?
- That's very, it's soda cool.
- Soda cool, it is soda cool.
Yeah, so you just say soda scan
and you give it the YAML file
for the connection information,
and then a YAML file for the types of things
you wanna test.
So they've got this example of how you're talking
to one of the data warehouses
and it's going and pulling in these config files.
And it basically, this example,
it's testing 54 different conditions.
Three tests were executed.
Everything's good to go.
So, you know, if you're getting kind of data dropped on you
or you're scanning, you know, scraping data
from other places on some kind of background job
and you wanna bring it in, you know, if it's all automated,
how do you know when it goes wrong, right?
So here's a nice, simple way to express that.
- Yeah, that's neat.
- Yeah, and Brandon out in the audience says,
"I think we're looking at great expectations
"for this same thing."
And yeah, this is kind of a, I guess,
my first impression is this is a less code way
of doing what great expectations does, right?
So like you can just put together some YAML files
that define what you wanna test for, right?
So for example, in this YAML file,
I can say the metrics are row count, missing count,
and missing percentage.
And then I can test that the row count is greater than zero.
Right?
And then another one is for the column, for the ID,
it's a UUID that it's,
I'm allowing 0% of the UUID format to be invalid, right?
You know, that's got like a certain structure to it, right?
That's like a, either a straight UUID or a string
that looks, that can be parsable over to one,
I'm guessing, something like that.
So pretty cool.
I think that's probably the biggest difference.
So if you just want to define kind of like declaratively,
like here are the conditions of which I want it to test,
and then you want to just set it up
to continuously scan it, looks good.
- The invalid percentage looks interesting
because it's an interesting addition of like,
you know, there can be some bad rows,
but we don't want more than like 20% bad rows
or something like that.
- Right, right.
Maybe you can't have zero errors, right?
Like you just, sometimes the data is just not there.
But if it's 100% not there,
then something's gone terribly wrong
or the data formats change
and it's not called that anymore or whatever,
JSON, who knows?
Daniel, what do you think?
- My data is always in CSV files,
so I have, I guess there are pros and cons
to never having touched SQL, as I've heard from some.
(laughing)
- Much easier to version control.
Just put the CSV in version control.
(laughing)
- Yeah, anyway, I think this one's pretty neat.
People can check it out
if they're doing relational data stuff.
And they, especially if you're doing a lot of on-demand,
you know, not like you ask for it,
but it's just on-demand processing,
or you're given a database and you wanna check it out
to see how it's doing.
So I won't go on anymore on that
'cause I've got a ton of other extras.
So kick it over to you, Daniel.
- Cool.
So let's see.
There was a review article back in 2020 published
in the research journal Nature.
For anyone not in the research articles world,
nature is one of the top level ones.
For reference in grad school,
we had some fancy work we did with quantum entanglement
and we got rejected by a sub journal of nature.
So to get anything into nature is highly non-trivial.
I will add the--
- It's like the JAMA,
the Journal of American Medical Association of science.
Basically.
- It's absolutely one of the top ones.
I will say it's a review article.
So it's easier typically to get a review article
than to say, "Hey, this is bleeding edge research
that's going to change the world."
But still, the big news is two things.
One, that there's an article
by Travis Oliphant and others
on array programming with NumPy
in nature.
That's a big enough deal that they chose to publish this
and it got through and it's
I think very significant that
that software was something that was good enough to publish.
The other and you know they go through and they talk about kind of the fundamentals of it all.
There's one diagram I really like that sort of shows how the whole ecosystem stacks up.
You've got an umpire's base.
That's a cool visualization.
Yeah and then you got SciPy and Matplotlib and you know the other plotting libraries.
So there's the foundation.
Yeah.
As you can say for people who are listening it's like the tree of life for scientific libraries.
Sorry go on Daniel.
That's absolutely right.
So from that foundation, as far as algorithms and plots,
you go up to like specific method you're using.
Are you doing image processing?
Are you doing machine learning or something else?
And off to domain specifics like Astropy.
And I think you've had those guys on talk Python.
So you've gotten to talk to them.
And then down to very application specific.
So NumPy serving almost everybody
who does anything numerical down to like Qtip,
which is used for people working on quantum computers.
So very large breadth being discussed here.
- Q-tip that's so cute.
I like it.
- And yeah, so it's notable that Python got into nature.
And if you go search for Python,
there are a lot of other articles.
But it's also interesting to see
that they're willing to publish software.
You guys have talked in the past
about how you can't always publish the software package
and any research journal.
So how do you get credit for that if you're in academia?
But this is an interesting take
to see that nature chose to publish it.
- Yeah, this is super interesting.
I think it's very valuable to just raise awareness, right?
It's, you know, this is the water that we swim in,
but not everyone.
Everyone is immersed in the Python data science tooling.
Right?
- Yeah.
- There's a lot of authors on here.
I was trying to understand,
I'm guessing those are the maintainers of the packages
that were included,
but I mean, you don't have 20 people write one paper,
so I don't know how.
It's kind of like the LIGO papers
or like the gravitational wave interferometer ones
where like this crazy list,
it's like the first page of the articles,
almost all authors,
just 'cause there's so many people
that worked on this for so long.
So I'm guessing that's what the story is here.
- And you can access it.
Some articles, some journals,
you can't actually read it unless you have a subscription,
but this one's available.
- Indeed, yeah, a very cool pick.
Before we move on, maybe you know, Daniel,
Alvaro, an audience asked,
Have any of you come across a way to validate
Panda's data frames against a schema,
much like SQL Soda, Soda SQL?
- Sodomy scope.
- Yeah, I haven't.
- I feel like we have, but I don't remember.
- Yeah, I don't remember either.
Sorry, maybe something we should seek out for the next one.
And I think we might get some answers in the audience.
So we'll let them inform us as we move on.
So Brian, what's next?
- Well, this isn't Python specific,
but I think a lot of Python people are using GitHub actions.
So GitHub announced, I guess,
recently a supercharging GitHub actions with job summaries.
It's an article that we'll link to.
And basically it's pretty cool.
I can't wait to try this.
I'm using GitHub actions.
And the gist is you can now have Markdown
go directly into your GitHub job summary sort of thing
with like this crazy global variable
called GitHub step summary.
But it's got marked out to it.
And I'm like, well, what can you do with this though?
But Simon Wilson released, was tweeting about it.
And then said, and then Ned Batchelder said,
hey, I'm using it too.
So Ned has a little example on coverage.py that shows,
what does it show?
It shows you get this nice total coverage percentage.
If you want to put that in the coverage for your repo,
you can do that.
Interesting that coverage.py is not 100% covered.
(laughing)
I don't know why I find that funny.
- Yeah, I hear you, I love it.
(laughing)
But, and then, so Simon also listed Dataset
is, has an example on Dataset.
You doing, adding some extra stuff to,
what is he adding?
Changed files.
Oh, he's got a tool that does, looks for
how many files have changed in recently.
And he actually just wrote,
he just wrote a write up for that.
So we're linked to that as well.
So GitHub action job summaries,
and he shows how it works.
You can pop out stuff.
And I love Markdown.
- Yeah, little code fences and all sorts of stuff.
That's very cool if you want to structure
something real nice like that.
- Yeah, it even has,
so supposedly it's got a whole bunch of stuff.
It's got like, you can do tables even.
So that's neat.
And emojis, why not?
- Oh yeah.
If you put a little fire emoji in there.
Yes, do it.
- Is there anybody get images?
Like if you create an image during the action,
Can you reference it?
- I don't know.
- It's a good question.
- It doesn't mention images, but.
- Maybe you could base 64 encode it
and embed it as a data URL.
- Wow, it even does a mermaid,
which is a way to do diagrams within it.
- Yeah, that's very nice, like flowcharts.
- Yeah.
- Fantastic.
This is a good one.
I need to learn to do more with GitHub actions.
I don't do very much with them.
- I love them.
I used to use Travis back in the day,
but I think these are way easier.
- Daniel, do you do any of those sorts of things?
Any CI automation type stuff?
- A previous company, we used Azure DevOps
and set up some stuff to build packages
and build applications, but not at the moment.
It doesn't happen to be any code bases I have,
but I need that.
- Yeah, very cool.
All right, well, I've got an interesting one here.
I wanna dive into it, you guys.
So this one, let me give some attribution here.
This one was sent over by Intimar, I believe from Meta.
And then this is a write-up by Alex Wegged.
And what it is, is it's basically the notes for all of us
who were not there for the 2022 Python Language Summit.
So that's pretty cool.
There were around 30 core developers, triagers,
and special guests gathered the day before PyCon.
And so they had a bunch of different talks and ideas
they discussed.
Quick summary, really, it's about-- so much of this
is about performance and parallelism right now.
And then there's a lot of maintainability,
back channels, back flows here.
All right, so coming through these first,
Sam Gill made a huge splash last year when he talked
and he introduced the no-gil work that they had done
for Python 3.8, I believe.
I can't remember, 3.8, 3.9.
No, it was 3.9 for them.
Cinder was 3.8.
So for 3.9, and there's a lot of interesting optimizations
and whatnot in that talk.
So the idea is,
can we live without a global interpreter lock?
Larry Hastings tried the galectomy, sort of said,
you know, it's too much of a penalty
to try to live without it.
But this no-gil work that Sam Gross did actually
had very small overhead in terms of what it added,
but potentially removed some of the GIL things.
So there's a lot of analysis of that.
People were excited, but how is it written?
It says, "Robust," there was robust questioning.
(laughing)
One, I guess one of the biggest parts that they discussed
was maybe this should be a fork of CPython.
There should be a no-gil version of Python.
And, but Sam is like,
I really don't wanna have just another separate version
of Python.
I really want this to just help everyone.
So, pretty interesting.
I think originally it was maybe gonna be a runtime flag
you could pass to Python,
but it's looking like it more likely is gonna turn out
to be a compiler flag,
so you'd have to have a no-gil build,
even though it's from the same source code.
So yeah, a bunch of interesting things,
concerns about how it's gonna work
with C libraries and so on.
But all these are pretty interesting read-ups,
reads, write-ups.
So Eric Snow did a presentation
on his per-interpreter gill,
which is interesting in how it approaches
a slightly different problem than, say, Sam Gross.
So Sam is trying to get it out of Python.
Eric is saying, well, if we could just have
a sub-interpreter, like a little mini in-process interpreter
that runs per thread, then they can all gill
to their heart's content.
It doesn't matter, 'cause it's all single-threaded, right?
But what's interesting, if you go look at this one,
in here, we've got, this one,
It says something like, way back in 1997,
this idea of multiple sub-interpreters was added by Guido,
but it really hasn't, nothing has been done with it.
And when somebody tries to do stuff with it,
there were thousands of global variables.
And if you're going to have per-interpreters,
you have to somehow have those not shared
because then you're going to have the GIL back on them,
right, you have that locking.
So due partly to the deprecation of some of the old libraries
and stuff, it's gotten a little simpler.
But that was it for the next write-up.
But anyway, they've reduced this to almost 1,000,
to 1,200 remaining globals.
So needless to say, it is not totally solved here.
So again, one of the possible worries of all this stuff
is, well, how are the C extensions
going to deal with this?
They don't know about multiple sub-interpreters.
Yeah, so anyway, that's another one
of the main threads going on there.
Let's see.
Then this is probably the biggest deal.
This is a faster CPython 3.12 and beyond
by Mark Shannon and Guido Van Rossum.
So stepping back a release, Python 3.11,
if you haven't heard, is fast.
It's supposed to be 1.25 times faster than 3.10.
How about that?
- Yikes.
- This blows me away.
In one year, they were able to make Python 1.25x faster
and it's been out for 30 years.
It's not like, oh, well, we released it last year
and now we've learned some things.
You know, it's really, really, really solidified
in the way that it is.
And then still there's a lot of work.
And this apparently is just the beginning.
This is like a five-year plan to add all sorts
of optimizing JIT compilers and all sorts of things.
- How did they quantify that or what subset of the length
was that tested on?
That's the tricky thing to say.
Python is 25% faster.
- Doesn't matter what you do.
Even if you just waiting on a database, it's still 25%.
- Just overclock your computer in the background.
- It's liquid cools it.
I believe that number comes from the unit tests.
I call the tests for CPython.
I'm not 100% sure, but I believe that was the conversation.
And so one of the big things coming is possibly a JIT,
an optimizing JIT compiler.
So right now they've found a way
to optimize individual bytecode instructions
to make the runtime smarter and go,
oh, I see what you're trying to do.
We could have a specialized version of that.
But that's on a per line basis.
Like how about inlining this method?
'Cause I only see it called in two places
or something like that, right?
So you need something that can look more broadly at the code.
So that's this idea of the JIT compiler and so on.
So yeah, this is really good,
but all three of these things I've talked about are like,
both they might help each other,
but they also might inhibit each other, right?
So like the no-gil work might interfere
with some of the optimizations that they're doing over here
and the multiple sub-interpreters also
might be some interplay that they've gotta be worked out.
So I'll just summarize the rest.
WebAssembly, and so we've talked about PyScript last time
and Pyodide.
This is the official CPython build target for just CPython.
So this is really interesting that it's sort of a more
from the core devs rather than somebody coercing CPython
into a different build on their own.
So that's pretty neat.
Fstrings, apparently the fstring parser
is kind of this weird side parser thing
that's not actually part of the Python code parser.
But now we have PEG, the PEG parser,
it can support more of this and sort of unify that.
So yeah, there's something like 1,400 lines
of customized C code for parsing f-strings.
Who knew?
Well, the people who wrote it knew.
They did a lot of work.
- There's like 600 of the global variables right there.
(all laughing)
- Exactly.
The most important 1400 lines in all Python right now.
They have string functionality.
[LAUGHTER]
Then two of the big optimizations from Cinder,
that's the Python 3.8 specialization from Meta.
One is, this is a presentation by Idmar Osterreicher.
So this is the person who sent this in actually.
This is looking at async methods.
and if you can be sure it's not actually going to a wait,
treat it like a regular method.
So, you know, like if you have an async method,
you might say, do this, do this, do this.
If I already have the value in the cache,
return else await database call, right?
If you already have it in the cache,
why do you need to create a coroutine,
schedule it on the loop, wait for the loop to get to it,
and then return, just boot, just call it,
like a regular method, just give us the answer.
That's the idea.
There's some interesting ideas that it might change runtime ordering,
although I don't know there was any promises of runtime ordering.
But yeah, so that one's interesting.
Also, the issue in PR backlog,
now that we moved to GitHub,
apparently there are issues that are still 20 years old,
that are still open.
And traditionally,
the core devs and the triagers and so on have
approach these things like, well, should we close this?
Or probably we need to keep it open
'cause it's important for historical reasons.
And they're starting to talk about like,
this is not helpful for anyone.
Maybe our first question is like,
why should we keep this open?
And if the answer is not clear, just close it.
There's a lot of talk about, well, this historical stuff
and maybe someone wants to pick it up.
Well, if it were me, if I got to pick,
and obviously I don't, so it doesn't really matter.
I would just go, if it's older than two years,
close it. There's a script that just says, "Over in two years, select all, close." Now, let's go
through and figure it out because at some point, if you've got 20 years of, "You should make this
change." Maybe these things aren't even relevant anymore or things have moved beyond it or it
doesn't make sense in 2022. I don't know. But mostly what I got out of that article is I'm
thankful that I don't have to deal with 20 years of issues and peers.
(laughing)
- But also they don't go away if you close them.
They're still there if people really wanna see them.
So I think they should be,
maybe two years might be a little extreme,
but at the very least five or three.
- There should be a number where that's true.
That number should be less than 30.
- And it's a smaller number than 20, right?
So.
- Yeah.
All right.
This is a long section.
Last thing, I'll close it out with this.
Immortal objects the path forward for mortal objects. So let me ask you guys this
Can you change none or true or false?
Now, right?
Does do you think it's ever gonna go away?
Like are we done using true and then it's just gonna get garbage collected or reference counted out of memory
Nope, but you know what every time you interact with true and false. It's still incrementing its ref count
It's an object right yeah
And so this discussion is like, isn't there some that just shouldn't be participating
in reference counting because they're just fundamental to the idea of a class, the structure
of a thing that defines what a class is.
True, false, the numbers, the low numbers.
There should be some that are not consuming that memory because they don't need to keep
track of that section and so on.
So anyway, this was the proposal.
Again, it's complicated, is the story.
But yeah.
I do something a little bit like this on Talk Python,
the training site.
So I've done a lot to tweak the garbage collection around there
and really change the defaults of what
are the triggers for garbage collection.
So if I've got this many allocations and so on.
And one of the things you can do is
you can tell it from here on, like what has existed up until now, freeze that and don't
look at it when you have to look for cycles.
Right?
Yeah.
So I just, in my app startup, when it's kind of imported the things and it's about to start,
it just says, okay, everything that you've done to come to life, just don't trick that
anymore.
Anything else I make from here on out, please clean that up.
And it seems to, it's kind of a super cheap, cheapo version, but you still get reference
counting right yeah that's definitely not a reason that I think it's worth it
for some of these immortal objects yeah why not I mean we shouldn't be reference
counting on none that's kind of weird unless unless it slows things down by
having like it does that's the thing that's crazy so over here they're like
alright here's the deal we shouldn't we shouldn't have to worry about this
And so where was it?
The benefits of immortality.
It adds an if statement to everything, right?
So it says the naive implementation of this makes it 6%
slower, not faster, like oh no.
- Makes sense.
- And we think we can make it only 2% slower.
- It's getting slower though, yeah.
- Well, the thing is, normally you would just
reference count it.
You just go none plus equals one, right?
Or plus plus, minus minus.
But here you're like, you have to have a test.
Like if it's an immortal object, do this, else do that.
And it's just like that bit in the hot loop of the runtime
is just apparently overhead, you know?
- Yeah, for everything.
So everything you reference has to check
to see whether or not it's an immortal object
before it does the reference counting, so.
- Yeah.
Maybe it has a no op method on it, I don't know.
I think it probably works straight on the field though.
Much like Highlander, Alvaro says,
"There can only be one none."
(all laughing)
All right, well. - It's just a trade off.
- Yeah, yeah, this is definitely an interesting trade off.
All right, well, I think that's more than enough
for the language writer, but it was really cool
that Alex wrote that up and NMR sent it in
'cause that's a good insight to what's next.
[AUDIO OUT]
Cool.
So it's my turn, right, given that it's John?
Yes, go ahead, Dana.
Cool.
So people in the software community
are blessed with many options for doing source control.
You've got Git, SVN, Mercurial, and other historical ones
that maybe aren't as well used.
But optical engineers, mechanical engineers,
electrical engineers, everybody else
doesn't have it nearly as good as the software community.
So anytime I see an option for that, it definitely sticks out of my mind.
So I don't remember how I found this, but came upon all spice
fairly recently, which is get for people who are doing circuits.
This is cool.
So it has it looks exactly like it.
You've got version control, you've got all the things you expect to have.
It's compatible with some of the common electrical design programs.
But it really just gives you the ability
to do all these sorts of things that you take for granted
if you're in a sophisticated workflow like software,
but that you wish dearly you had for any other discipline.
- So when you put something in source control
and you diff it, what do you get?
Are you diffing graphics?
Are you diffing some sort of definition file
that defines the circuit?
- One of the first thing they have is the diff tool,
'cause they know that that's
kind of one of the big questions, right?
is how do you compare the schematics?
Are we gonna show it?
So they have a way to do it visually
and you can look at all the changes
and it looks like they're highlighting each commit
to whatever change was made on the schematic.
- That's cool.
- Yeah.
- I love that, it's very cool, yeah.
- Yeah, so one potential question would be,
well, great, it's nice that you can do that on the internet
but I work at a commercial company
that doesn't wanna do that.
But they do have both, what they have a,
They have self hosting and they have a government cloud version.
If you're subject to things like ITAR, EAR.
So you can in the same sense that it has an enterprise option, all spice also has an enterprise option.
Like an on Prem self hosted version.
Yeah, so I've no your secrets.
Yes, so I have no personal experience with it, but it's very promising and excited to see somebody trying to come up with better ways to do engineering work besides just software.
You can even configure it to integrate with Tortoise Git,
like Windows Explorer, right-click type of Git.
>> Yeah. So exciting stuff.
Hopefully, somebody helps out the Mechies
and the optical engineers as well one day.
>> Yeah. I mean, there's always large file support,
but the diff is terrible, right?
>> Usually.
>> Yeah. You're looking at binary files or stuff
that's where humans are so good at processing images
that if you have a visual comparison
that that's orders of magnitude better
than trying to look at lines of your,
even if it is a plain text file that you can read through.
- Yeah, definitely.
Yeah.
- Here's your XML with its names.
Good luck.
- What?
What does this mean?
- Yeah.
- Indeed.
- Well, cool.
I like it.
- All right.
Brian, you got any extras for us?
I, yeah, actually, so I've been busy.
I've got like this back stream of testing code episodes.
So the most recent one is that I put out was with Will McGugan.
We're talking about rich and textual and textualized.
It's really fun, really fun one.
But actually, so since we talked last Tuesday,
I've got four extra episodes that have come out.
So we've got teaching, including testing with web front end stuff.
which was kind of an interesting story about like,
basically if you're college level students,
but they're new to coding,
when do you include testing?
And Carl says right away, why not?
So also a developer and productivity episode.
I think that's, oh yeah.
And a Python Django rich and testing articles,
so or episodes.
So lots of goodness over on testing code.
They have a Django rich package, apparently.
- Yeah, that was just for other, like the CLI,
the Django CLI stuff, including rich with that,
which is great, but they've incorporated
the that into the test runner.
So the Django test runner can do rich tracebacks,
which is pretty cool. - Perfect.
- So.
- Daniel, you got anything else you wanna give a quick?
- No.
- Sure, so Adafruit's a well-known company
for doing maker electronics and,
oh yeah, I don't have the links up, sorry.
But Adafruit's well-known and they do a good job
of focusing at the first five minute experience
of getting you up to speed with something on electronics.
But there are other companies that do the same thing as well
so I was gonna shout out SparkFun, Seed Studio,
and then other companies like OpenMV
who has a focus on machine vision.
And they're less geared more for the people
at the entry level.
So maybe if you're a little more comfortable
with certain things or a little more comfortable,
you know, exploring those things on your own,
they could be good options.
- Right.
More specialized maybe for people who are trying to-
- Or if you go to, yeah, if you go to Adafruit
and what you want is out of stock,
you can check some other places too.
- Which unfortunately happens a lot these days.
It's, those things come and go.
A lot of demand.
- Yes.
- All right, I do have some.
- Yeah. - Cool.
- That's right.
I've got a bunch of ones, but I kind of got a lot.
So, all right, let's see.
I'll go last.
All right, the first one is,
I always love a good documentary on tech stuff.
And sometimes these are super cheesy,
but there's a documentary called "Power On,
The Story of Xbox," which is a four hour video,
which you can watch on YouTube,
which I'll link directly to the YouTube video.
And it's really good.
It's really interesting.
Whether you love or hate the Xbox,
honestly don't care that much one way or the other,
but it's just an interesting sort of view
of the last 20 years of technology
from the gaming side.
So if people are looking for something to watch
and they want to spend four hours doing it
or spread it out, they can check this out.
All right, speaking of videos, not that one, this one.
I took, so recently I released my Git course
on sort of a pragmatic introduction to Git.
And I decided I wanted to share one part of it
with a broader world.
So I released a video called
the four reasons to branch with Git.
And I put that on YouTube, people can check that out.
So it's like an hour long video I posted this week.
And then this one comes to us from Jason Percor,
saying how cool is it to see Python showing up
like right on the front page of various places.
So there's this place called EasyPost, easypost.com,
which lets you like do labels and track your labels
and stuff.
But if you just scroll down just a little bit,
it says, you know what?
why don't you just either buy labels
or you can just use this Python API right here.
And it doesn't even sort of,
if your developers click to reveal the secret,
you know, just like, no, here's your Python code
for our company.
So just kind of a cool little thing for that.
Let's see, Brian Skin pointed out
that the Stack Overflow 2022 developer survey
is open for accepting comments, which is cool.
And I'm gonna put this up here on the screen first.
So Brian, do you see this?
It has all of this stuff.
I can't, if I click it, it'll just go away.
And like, this is an image, right, right here.
- Yeah.
- What if I wanted that as text?
What if I wanted to somehow grab that?
So I've got this app,
which I'm gonna tell you all about next,
called Text Sniper.
Watch this, so you can't quite see.
If I just drag over that,
just like you would a screenshot.
And then let's see,
it's somewhere I can paste this.
So what I got out of that is, check this out.
Isn't that cool? - Oh, wow.
Yeah. - I just control seed
from like the picture on my screen.
And it can do PDFs, it can do screenshots.
Like, so for example, if you're watching a video presentation
you see a slide, you're like,
oh, I want to capture those bullet points
or that, grab it, you got it.
So that is called text sniper, which is super neat.
All it does, it's just like the select region
for screenshot and then boom.
It doesn't matter what's under it.
It's just, if it's texted, OCR is it, and then you got it.
- Yeah.
So often like a small restaurant will put their address
or their phone number, like in an image, like, come on.
I gotta click on that.
- I wanted to put, just drop this,
paste it into maps or something.
- Yeah.
- I don't know.
I think for doing research,
if you're like watching videos,
you want to get something out of something
that's on the screen, like a slide or whatever.
This is pretty awesome.
And it costs something like $11 once.
So it's, you know, if it's useful to you,
it'll be worth it.
If not, then, you know, it's not,
there's gotta be worth $11 or zero to you.
- That was like a good OCR app.
- Yeah, yeah.
And it's just the ease of use, right?
Not take a screenshot and go find your app.
It's just like, slap, slap, drop.
Okay, so last one of my extras, Sam Low and Philip Guo
sent over, Sam Low, sorry, and then sent over that,
I had them on to talk about Pandas Tutor,
and they were talking about the challenges
of running Pandas Tutor on the server side
and letting people run code, but it's pretty limited
because you don't want them to hack the various things.
You don't want to keep it pretty limited
so they don't take advantage of like your compute resources.
So now they just posted a message saying,
Pandas Tutor, if you go over here and say,
visualize your code,
it'll go and do all these cool visualizations.
I know we've spoken about this before,
but notice what it says here.
I can scroll a little.
It says, initializing PyIoDyed,
Python WASM download,
- Pandas running, boom.
And so all of this is running in client side Python,
which is just, yeah.
So we talked about that being one of the topics
of the language summit, the WASM support,
and here you have it in action.
So I said on the show, like,
"Hey, have you guys considered this?"
Like, "Ah, maybe we should."
And then like, "This turns out to be a great idea."
(both laughing)
Like the message is run code on the server, that's slower.
We just recommend you run it here.
- Nice. - All right.
That's pretty neat.
Well done, you guys.
And that's it for my extras as well.
- That's a lot more real than I thought.
I guess I thought PyR died
and WebAssembly were a little bit further off,
but that's like, hey, there's an application right now
doing that today.
- Yeah, yeah.
Brian, the anti-gravity PyScript thing you showed
last week was so cool.
- Yeah, I didn't even know it was doing that
before we showed it, but it's pretty neat.
- Yeah, a lot of the interactions are super,
they're getting, starting to be really,
yeah, we're getting there, Daniel, we're getting there.
(Daniel laughs)
All right, how about a joke to wrap it up?
- Definitely.
- So we've all been in, well, maybe we haven't all been,
we can all imagine being in awkward situations,
maybe on a weird date, so I don't go on dates,
really being married for a long time,
but imagine, imagine that you had,
Here's a graphic of a woman who's on a date,
like maybe just woke up in the morning
after the first time together sort of thing.
And the guy who's like sculpted, right?
He's like clearly like a super fake,
probably a good looking guy, whatever.
But he's in the shower
and she's like flipping through his phone and says,
"When she looks through your phone,
but all she can find is fork a child and kill it."
Google search.
Kill child and fork parent.
Kill parent with fork.
Kill parent without killing child.
Kill child.
You got this face of like, oh,
what's that?
Uh, those are great.
Yeah, she's got this look like I thought it was going so well and he's a murderer.
No, he's just trying to figure out Linux.
Don't don't hold it against kill child without killing grandchild.
It's so bad.
- It makes me feel bad for laughing.
- Can you do that?
- I don't know, yeah.
- Well, I don't know.
I haven't searched it,
but I'm gonna have to explain that search if I did.
- Search it in stealth.
- That's what incognito mode is for.
This is totally benign,
but if somebody sees it out of context,
maybe they won't feel that way about it.
- There's what will get you on the FBI list,
and then software engineers search for direct--
- Yeah, there's like, yeah, a Venn diagram of that.
- Yeah, there's probably a small intersection there.
- It's probably pretty big actually.
- Yeah, it's probably pretty big.
(laughing)
- Anyway, well thanks everybody for a fun show again.
- Yeah, you bet.
Thanks Brian and Daniel, it's great to have you here.
- Yep, thanks.
- Thanks for coming.
Bye.
Bye everyone in the audience, thanks for being here.
- Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]